# Class2Homework

## Student
{Katie Takacs}

### Trying This Out - July 12, 2017, 17:00

I started by just trying to get a basic basic format out. I mostly played with one box that I moved into different positions, tried out different styles, and colors. I looked at www.w3schools.com/css for different commands and just played with things through Sublime running a localhost. I'll be honest, I have the localhost instructions saved on my computer and I just automatically run them wihtout really knowing what it means exactly. When I first when to pull this up, I thought I missed something because it was just the list of files in the folder I was running from. Then after an embarrassing amount of time, I got incredibly excited when I finally clicked on the html and it loaded what I was trying to make - including changing the Tab name. I've only ever run localhost with a p5.js sketch - which is pretty neat, but you miss exactly what the HTML and CSS is doing. And though I've looked at these things before, I've never really delved into how they actually work together - so this is exciting for me because I feel like I'm connecting some dots.

That being said, there are still many more dots to connect. I have an API key from NASA - I picked that because it was easy to get, and I just wanted to have a hopefully simple thing to get to display. But I don't think I've got it linked in right...or, I guess I don't know what/how I'm calling information from the NASA API. I'm going to keep playing with it, but I wanted to get something posted just in case - so I'm uploading this, and hope to have updates later tonight or tomorrow morning.

For now, I have the API url in the HTML, but I don't think it's actually doing anything.

I have an image hard linked that I got from NASA as an example...still looking at exactly how they called it to see how I can pull it without a hard link, but an API. (I know there's a weekly photo that NASA posts, and my hopes and dreams were to get that to be the image that loads when you pull up my page - a lot like the 'How Many Astronauts in Space?' website. I'm going to keep working on it.) But still, I wanted to look at different options of displaying the image - so that's why I have that there.

I now understand why exactly positioning in CSS is so annoying. I think I spent a couple hours just trying different combinations of positions and widths, etc. trying to figure out exactly what each thing does. I still don't fully comprehend it - but I've got a better idea of it, at least. I'm trying to figure out ways of making the sizes of things based on %s - not relying completely on pixels. I know when transferring between devices it's so much easier to do that if you don't depend on pixels. This could be a stupid question, but is 'width/2' a strictly JS style of positioning/sizing? It seems so to me - or maybe I haven't found the right way to express it/think about it. I'm still playing with that - but seems like I just need to stick to %s. I was looking at the 'em' units for the font sizes. It's weird thinking about things based off a 16px increment - but so is the Imperial measurement system, and I use that at work every day. So it's not that bad.

All in all, I'm still playing, and working on getting something that looks prettier than this - but I'm pretty proud of my little early '90's looking website. The other thing I wanted to play with is the CSS on my ITP WordPress blog. I was so proud of myself last semester when I figured out how to change the font size in the HTML text of the blog post. But, after class on Tuesday, I now know that's a no-no. (I didn't know any better - I was younger then, and even newer to coding. I'm still piecing everything together.) So, now I'm looking at the CSS for the template I've been using and seeing what I can do there - which I understand is child's play to everyone else, but I'm super excited about it. And I'm sure I'm going to have to go through my old posts and delete where I adjusted the HTML last semester. Consider it a lesson learned situation, and I'm sure not a bad exercise to go through. (Like when you first learn how to weld, and spend most of your time grinding down piled welds until you learn how to just weld flatter in the first place.)